Perspective 2011
################
:date: 2011-01-05 12:00
:category: Javascript, PHP, Python
:tags: amazon web services, bluebream, eclipse, emacs, extjs, node.js, python, sencha touch, textmate, twig, zend framework, intellij idea, pycharm
:slug: perspective-2011

The beginning of a new year makes me consider current developments on
the market, and which of those might be of interest to me. It is also a
kind of fresh start, an attempt at motivation that probably everybody
needs in their job to enjoy working. 

`Sencha Touch`_ 
---------------
Mobile apps with HTML5 and CSS3, of course in fact cropped in their functionality, but
development time and comfort just speak for themselves. Besides, it's
cool ;). The API relies strongly on ExtJS, which is advantageous to me
due to my previous knowledge. 

`ExtJS 4`_ 
----------
A new version of ExtJS? It can
only improve a lot. ExtJS3 is very professional already. I'm looking
forward to possibly employing it in two of my current projects.

`node.js`_ 
----------
Javascript on the server, AJAX push/pull, server load
relieving...... there is an interesting technology indeed in the offing.

`Twig`_ 
-------
Since I am currently working more with Zend Framework, i.e. PHP,
I'm quite enthusiastic about Twig, because it reminds me a lot of Zope
page templates, and of the beautiful world of Python. 

`Zend Framework 2`_ 
-------------------
The admittedly very useful and convenient PHP framework, completely
overhauled. ``/me`` in sceptical but eager anticipation. 

`Bluebream 1.0`_ 
----------------
(formerly Zope 3) Will Bluebream become the more organized Zope3?

`Amazon Web Services`_ 
----------------------
It would appeal to me to use more AWS services
than heretofore, to fully exploit this scalability. At the same time
trying out possible alternative providers. 

Editor 
------
I am at odds with all
editors that I have used up to now. Eclipse is too inflated and slow for
me, Emacs is too dry (I can use Emacs shortcuts in any other editor
too), Textmate has no proper code outline view. I hope to come across
the perfect editor in 2011. What other interesting technologies for us
web developers are out there? Trends? Dark horses? Hints are
appreciated.

.. _Sencha Touch: http://www.sencha.com/products/touch/
.. _ExtJS 4: http://www.sencha.com/blog/2010/11/22/ext-js-4-preview-faster-easier-more-stable/
.. _node.js: http://nodejs.org/
.. _Twig: http://www.twig-project.org/
.. _Zend Framework 2: https://github.com/zendframework/zf2
.. _Bluebream 1.0: http://pypi.python.org/pypi/bluebream
.. _Amazon Web Services: http://aws.amazon.com/
